EPISTULAE AD QUINTUM FRATREM, Ι. 1.

believe, of reading my letters, well, then, your third
year ought to be so free from blemish that nobody
could possibly find the slightest fault with it.

And here I no longer plcad with you by exhortation 11
and precept, but by beseeching you in brotherly
fashion to devote all your mind, attention, and medi-
tation to the winning of praise from every man’s lips
in every quarter. Now if our sphere of action were
so limited as to elicit no more than ordinary talk and
comment, nothing extraordinary, nothing beyond the
common practice of others, would be demanded of
you. As it is, however, owing to the splendour and
magnitude of the affairs in which we have had a hand,
if we fail to secure the highest praise for the adminis-
tration of your province, it seems hardly possible for
us to escape the bitterest vituperation. We are in
such a position that all loyal men, though they sup-
port uS, at the same time demand and expect of us
every devotion to duty and every virtue, while all the
disloyal on the other hand, since with them we are
engaged in a war that knows no ending, seem to be
satisfied with the most trivia] pretext for censuring us.

Since, therefore, you have been assigned a theatre 42
such as this, crowded with such multitudes, so ample
in its grandem, so subtle in its criticism, and by
nature possessed of such an echo that its manifesta-
tions of feeling and ejaculations reach Rome itsels‚
for that reason, I implore you, struggle and strive
with all your might, not merely to prove yourself to
have been worthy of the task allotted to you, but also
to prove that by the excellence of your administra-
tion you have surpassed all that has ever been
achieved in Asia.

XV. And now that fortune has assigned the 43

433

