CHRONOLOGICAL SUMMARY

the opposition of the consul Marcellus. Curio openly
declares for Caesar, whom he joins at Ravenna, thus,
according to Lucan, turning the scales against the

Pompeian party (momentumque fuit mutatus Curio
rerum).

49 B.C.
Consuls: L. Cornelius Lentulus Crus and C. Claudius

Marcellus, cousin qs leis namesake, the consul sor
50, ancl brother ostlee consulfor 51

The tribunes M. Antonius and Q. Cassius, accom-
panied by Caelius Rufus, leave Rome and join Caesar,
who on J anuary 11 crosses the Rubicon, and thereby
declares war upon the Republic‚ and marching south-
wards finally besieges Pompey in Brundisium. On
March 17 Pompey escapes to Dyrrachium, Whither
the consuls had gone with the bulk of his army on
March 4. Cicero vacillates as to his future pohey,
but finally decides to throw in his lot with Pompey.

48 B.C.

Consul& .· C. Julius Caesar (for the second time)
and P. Servilius Isauricus

Cicero spends the first half of the year in Pompey's
camp at Dyrrachium, where he conceives a poor
opinion of Pompey’s army3 he is still there when
he hears of the utter defeat of Pompcy by Caesar
near Pharsalus on August 7 and his ssight to Egypt.
Crossing with the Pompeians from Dyrrachium to
Corcyra, Cicero is threatened with death by young
Cn. Pompey for refusing to take the command as

senior consul. In October he returns to Italy and
settles in Brundisium.

XXV

