EPISTULAE Al) QUlNTUM FRATREM, 111. 1.

colonnade gives it a dignity that cannot be surpassed,
and that has only just struck me since the whole
colonnade itself has come into view, and the columns
have been polished. All depends upon the stuccoing
being neatly done, and that I shall see to. It seemed
to me that the pav ements were being properly laid.
Γ here were some arched roofs which I did not care
for, and I ordered them to be altered.

As regards the place in which they tell me that, 2
according to your written instructions, the ante-
chamber should be built, that is, in the colonnade‚ Ι
liked it better as it is. For there did not seem to be
room enough for the antechamber, nor is one usually
built, except in those edifices which have a larger
court, nor could it have bedrooms and apartments of
that sort built in it. As it is, the handsome curve of
its ceiling will of itself mal e it serve as an excellent
summer- room. How ever, if y ou think otherwise, write
back as soon as possible. In the bathroom I removed
the stove to the other corner of the dressing- room,
because it was so placed that its steam—pipe, from
which flames break out, was exactly under the bed-
rooms. There was a fairly spacious bedroom and
another lofty one for winter use, of which I heartily
approv,ed because they w·e1e not only loomy, but
situated in the right place, on one side of the prom-
enade, that next the batlnoom. The columns Diphilus
had placed were neither pelpendicul ar nor opposite
each other. He will, of course, have to pull them
down. Some day or other he will learn the use of
the plumb— —line and the tape. On the w‚hole Ι hope
Diphilus’ s job will be completed 1n a few months, for
Caesius, who was with me at the time, is keeping a
very careful eye upon him.

von. 111 T 549

