EPIS'I'ULAE AD FAMILIARES, XV. mxu-xv.

should strain every nerve to prevent any prolongation
of my term of office as governor of the province-a
term which both the Senate and the people decreed
should be for one year only. I urge this upon you so
strongly that Ι fcel all my prospects depend upon it.
You have our friend Paullus on your side, a warni
friend of mine, and there is Curio, and Furnius too. Ι

pray you to make every effort just as though all I have
were staked upon it.

My last point bears upon what I have already put 6
before y;ou it is the strengthening of our friendship,
as to w hich there is no need of further words. Y ou,
when 3 boy‚ Sought me out, while I felt that y ou w ould
·1lways be 3 source of distinction to me. You were
ι150 3 protection to me in the days of my deepest
gloom. There came too, after your deparwtme, my
intimacy with your relativ e Brutus and it was of the
closest. It is therefore in the ability and energy of
you two that Ι have stor ed up for myself an unlimited
fund of delight and distinction. I ask you in all
earnestness to confirm that impression by your de-
votion to me, and to send me a letter not only imme-
diately, but, on your arrival at Rome, as often as
possible.

XV
CICERO ΤΟ CASSIUS
Brundisium, latter half of August, 47 nc.

Although both of us in our hope of peace and loath- 1
ing for civil bloodshed wished to have nothing to do
with the obstinate prosecution of war, still, since I
seem to have taken the lead in that policy, I am

291

